Now, I have to make sure
they remember me forever.
Keep going straight! Keep going straight!
Don't let them come through.
Don't let them come through!
Sir, it's Mr. Ismael.
Dude, now I'm getting out of here!
I'm on the boat.
Joaquin...
I just got information that the DEA
contacted governments
in Guatemala, Nicaragua
and the coastal countries
in South America.
They're waiting for you at the ports.
Is the information trustworthy?
Yes, take precautions.
You have to hide very well.
Stop, stop, stop!
Everything all right, sir?
We're staying.
Mr. Joaquin, we're almost out.
It will be too risky if we stay in Mexico.
In Colombia, or in any other place
I'll be a fugitive just like here, Chilo.
I have to take care of it from the source.
I feel the warmth
from my boiling blood
I feel the fear, sweat dripping away
There's a stillness
that nothing transmits
I'm a breeze that grows stronger
Even when the clouds drift away
Even when my skin dries away
I'll be back someday
To unleash my return
I have the dust that protects the road
I have the branches of a leafless tree
I'm the guardian of the tired night
There are silhouettes that
come to meet me
Even when the clouds drift away
Even when my skin dries away
I'll be back someday
To unleash my return
We don't know anything about him
since the confrontation in Puerto La Cruz.
The DEA informs us there's no evidence
he's arrived in Colombia
or any other coastal countries.
It's been several weeks.
He can't disappear just like that.
There's rumors that
he could have been murdered
by Isidoro's people.
Rumors are useless to me, General.
We have to find him.
In Mexico or wherever the fuck he is.
To the house.
Why'd you take this road, Roberto?
I said I'm going home.
I'm sorry, sir.
My family has been kidnapped.
Give me your cell phone, sir.
Don't make things more complicated.
Did you miss me, Conrado?
You wanted to catch me so badly
that I ended up catching you.
Kidnapping me is
the worst thing you could do.
They won't add years
to your sentence for escaping,
but you won't have enough years
to pay your sentence for this.
What kidnapping, Mr. Secretary?
You're officially at lunch.
That's the story
your driver and your bodyguard will tell.
Did you forget your family is outside?
Vulnerable.
Think carefully about
what you want to do.
You won't achieve anything
by threatening me.
Negotiating...
that's how we both move forward,
as always.
Tell me what you want.
I want you to catch me.
But dead.
You want to fake your death?
It's the same for you whether
I'm dead or alive.
The important thing is
that you have your medal
by defeating me.
Be the one that put an end to
"El Chapo" Guzman.
In the end,
that's what will get you the presidency.
Instead of chasing me, you should be
preparing your campaign, Conrado.
The elections are near.
You prepare to be president...
and I prepare the perfect alibi
for my death.
If you die, you have to disappear.
You can't make anymore messes.
I know.
The years are catching up to me.
I just want to be with my family.
Your death can't raise any doubts.
It has to be believable.
We need a Chapo to take your place.
I'll take care of that.
One more thing before I release you.
Don't even think about betraying me.
If you try to catch me
or actually kill me...
just like I got to you right now,
my people will get to you,
and that's the end for you.
You're alive because this is
a win-win situation for both of us.
Nothing more.
RANCH SAFE HOUSE
COSALA, MEXICO
We operated on his cheekbones,
eyebrows and chin.
You look just like me.
Did Chilo tell you about the money?
Yes, Mr. Joaquin, thank you.
You'll be all around Mexico to confuse
the people following me.
You'll always have bodyguards.
-Questions?
-No, sir.
OK, good.
Good luck.
Your sleeve, please.
You know what you have to do.
Hello?
The boss says
that our man is on his way to
the Golden Triangle mountain range.
I'll give you the exact coordinates
where you can find him.
Twenty-five, thirty-four, seventy-seven,
minus 105...
SECURITY CABIN
GOLDEN TRIANGLE, MEXICO
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MEXICO CITY
We have him.
Follow my instructions to the T.
We got him in a routine inspection
in western Sierra Madre.
We'll release the official statement
in a couple of hours.
Did you get the samples for the DNA tests?
Yes.
They'll send them in a moment.
An army helicopter will pick
him up in half an hour.
Is it clear what you have to do with this?
Give it to them for the DNA sample.
The money will arrive at your house.
Where's the body?
Come on, come on!
MEXICO CITY
On the same night, Mexico
received two shocking news reports:
the death of the Sinaloa cartel fugitive
leader, Joaquin El Chapo Guzman,
and following, the theft of his body
by the members of his organization.
We are as surprised as you are, Director.
We never thought they would take him.
I disagree. If it's not enough
with the pictures,
the DNA tests will be enough
to confirm it was Guzman.
Those accusations are too severe
to be thrown around so lightly.
I suggest that if you don't have evidence
to back them up,
join the rest of us in accepting
that El Chapo Guzman... is dead.
We'll be in touch.
Up next, images from
the press conference
the Government secretary,
Conrado Sol, offered this morning.
The theft of Chapo's body doesn't blur
the absolute fact
that the biggest drug dealer
in the world has fallen,
thanks to impeccable work
by the armed forces of this county.
My commitment to Mexico
was to catch the biggest criminal
in its history,
and I have succeeded.
I'm dead.
Now, I have to make sure
they remember me forever.
Keep going straight!
Don't let them come through.
VANESSA ESPINOZA PRESENTS
THE TRUE STORY OF EL CHAPO GUZMAN
Dude, now I'm getting out of here.
I'm on the boat.
Is the information trustworthy?
Are you happy with the result?
We are very happy.
I'm very excited to be here today,
at this big premiere, with this project
we made with great effort,
but it's finally here
and I hope people people enjoy it.
Do you think El Chapo would've been happy
with this movie about his life?
I hope so.
What's next for your career?
A lot of projects,
but nothing confirmed, so...
I'll let you all know soon.
In how many theaters
will this be screened?
More than a thousand.
Friend.
Mr. Joaquin, what are you doing here?
I couldn't miss the movie.
I also wanted to say goodbye.
This will be the last time we meet.
Now that I'm not being chased,
I'm going with my girls and my wife.
I'm gonna get the ending
I've always wanted.
To die old and be free.
Surrounded by my people.
But, sir,
nothing that you've told me
has really happened.
That's what movies are for, right?
To tell it how you want it to be.
I'm sorry, but I can't make a story
of made-up things.
I want to tell the truth.
Reality is not as interesting
as you may think.
But it is in this case, sir.
Because your life is extraordinary,
and not telling the events
as they occurred would be a waste.
Also, please, take into consideration
that if I make this movie,
I want to redeem the victims
of organized crime.
You have a big heart, friend.
I trust you.
You choose what you want to say.
Thank you, sir.
Well, cheers.
Thank you for coming.
Everything is ready for you
to spend the night here.
I'm going to leave.
If I stay, I'd be putting you at risk.
Let's go!
MEXICO CITY
This is where we picked up
the last signal of the aircraft...
DEPARTMENT OF INTELLIGENCE DISE
...in which the actress was traveling.
We have sent units
to cover this entire zone.
But as you can see, it's a massive area.
So, there's not guarantee of results?
No, Mr. Secretary.
Keep looking.
But let's concentrate on Culiacan, also.
Conduct raids, question anyone
that can have information
about El Chapo or his family.
Any information is useful.
I'll take care of it personally.
When are you heading to Monterrey?
REHABILITA NGO
MEXICO CITY
In a couple of weeks, sir.
I want to finish training
the new counselor.
We really appreciate you here, Sebastian.
Come back and visit once in a while.
I promise, no doubt about that.
-Good luck.
-Thank you.
Hello?
It's me.
UNKNOWN NUMBER
INCOMING CALL
IT DEPARTMENT
Did you find anything?
Let's meet at the office.
Is everything ready for Elba and the kids?
Almost, sir.
Security in Culiacan is heavy,
but your idea might work.
They're going to try tomorrow.
Prepare everything to leave tomorrow.
Saying goodbye to them
is the only thing left.
As soon as I do it, we get out of here.
It was a lot of work.
Your wife is very discreet,
but I found something interesting.
Miami?
It's under her ex-husband's name.
Here are the papers that prove it.
These are the people captured
in the raids.
Many of them have an indirect or direct
relationship with the Sinaloa cartel.
Get the
interrogation room ready.
We're not getting out of here until one
of them gives us a clue to catch Guzman.
I thought you'd be better at
covering your tracks.
Not declaring such a valuable property
can get you in trouble.
If this information gets to the press,
your image as an honest senator
will be ruined.
The voice of the women in need
of this country.
The pressure ends from here on out, Berta.
I'll make decisions by myself.
And if I see it necessary,
I'll let you know.
In the end, you ended up being as
chauvinistic as any other.
Gay, cheap, and chauvinist.
I'll get to the presidency
despite all of that.
And you will have to wait your turn.
It will come to you,
but only if we're together.
You forget about Sebastian...
and I forget your apartment in Miami.
Agreed?
Conrado.
You have to catch Chapo.
If not, neither of us will get anywhere.
I'll catch him, don't worry.
Sir, the General
is on the line.
Put him through.
Did you get anything?
Yes, sir.
It's not much, but it might be useful.
Chapo's daughters have a peculiar pet,
a monkey.
There you go.
You'll go in the blue car
with one of them,
and you, Mom,
you'll go with the other in the van.
And Perez will go later, baby.
I want to travel with him.
You'll go see your dad first, OK?
And then he gets there later, huh?
I'm taking him, promise.
-Oh!
-
-That's it, let's go!
-Come on.
You too. That's it, let's go.
-Look.
-Let's go.
That's it.
Hello?
Are you ready?
Afternoon.
Papers, please.
Sorry, officer, I forgot them.
What's that?
Nothing, things for my daughters.
Open up, please.
It's nothing, officer.
We have to check all the cars, open up.
You have twins?
Yes.
Get out of the car, please.
Send back-up,
we got Chapo's wife!
All clear.
You can go through now.
It's clear.
Miss Elba and the girls left
Culiacan without a problem, Mr. Joaquin.
The plane is bringing them.
Turn around, miss.
This is not Elba Coronado.
Now, you and I are going to take a trip.
Hi, baby! How are you?
Come here, my beautiful queen!
My beautiful baby!
How are you, baby?
With daddy, too!
I'm going to the strip, Capi.
I'll be there in ten minutes.
It's overcast, we can't take off.
Fuck!
I'll let you know, but I don't think we
can leave for a couple of hours.
Don't worry.
I'm gonna take you to the girls anyway.
Here you go, officer.
Is that yours?
Yes, we're going to the vet.
A man just left Culiacan with a monkey.
He's driving a red Mustang.
There's a suspect driving
a red sports car on the road to Cosala.
MILITARY BASE
COSALA, MEXICO
When are you leaving?
When you leave.
When are we going to see you again?
Soon.
I've always been positive.
You'll see I'll find a place
to relax soon.
And I'll send for you.
You're not going back to Mexico.
Not for now.
Not until the next elections.
And I'll try to negotiate
with the next government.
You have the exact location?
Yes, sir. We know where
the red Mustang arrived.
What is Hector doing here?
He promised the girls
he would bring the monkey.
They don't like to be apart from it.
It's a complicated terrain.
We can't get in until the skies clear.
How long will that take?
We calculate at least one more hour, sir.
At least we know that if we can't get in,
El Chapo can't get out.
Not in an airplane.
Let us know when you can
start the operation.
On your command, sir.
Sir.
The pilot called, we can leave now.
My darlings...
Kiss. You have to go.
I'll see you soon.
-Take care of them.
-Of course, Joaquin.
Take them straight to the plane.
Let's go.
I love you.
Ciao.
Come in, Commander.
We're getting close
to the point, sir.
One team will stay at the entrance
of the highway, and another two
will get down to the highest part.
We'll make contact in five minutes.
Bring him in alive.
Everything's ready to go
to Puerto La Cruz.
Did Elba and the girls take off?
Yes, sir. No news.
Let's go.
We got nothing to do here.
Get the boss, the anchor dropped!
Wait here!
Get to the ATV's, sir!
Don't stop, come on!
Go down the hill, I'll cover you!
It's me!
-Are you hit?
-No, get me out of here.
Subtitle translation by Daniela Garcia